+++
title = "Cleaning"
date = "2024.10.10"
draft = false 
+++

Thank you so much for commissioning a fursuit from me! As long as you own a fursuit of mine I am always open for repairs and refurbs. My quality is likely to improve over time, so previous customers are therefore able to upgrade their fursuits with me to ensure their suits stay at a satisfactory quality level. 

As you may know, it is crucial to not use any heat on faux fur when washing it. Faux fur is made of small plastic strands, and powerful chemicals and high temperatures will melt and destroy the fur. It is therefore important to treat your fursuits with proper care. You can wash fursuit parts except the head in a washing machine using a cold, gentle setting. For fursuit parts except the head can also soak them in your bathtub. If your fursuit uses mesh eyes that are not sublimated, take care to not get the eyes wet. Heads with sublimated eyes can be soaked in the tub as well. For these types of washes, regular detergent will work fine. I can reccomend blenda sensitive. I would advise against using Klar vaskemiddel. Do not use any detergent made for wool. Dry cleaning and other similar products may destroy your fur. Therefore, I recommend doing some research before cleaning your fursuit with heavy cleaning products. 

If you’re putting the body, tail, and paws in the washing machine (do not put the head in the washing machine), I recommend putting smaller parts such as the paws in a cleaning bag. Use a gentle setting and cold water (30° max if your machine doesn't have a cold setting, but check your machine instructions thoroughly!). When drying, let the fursuit paws hang down. Avoid having the fur be bent or lay in an unnatural position, as the fur may not dry flat. Feetpaws and handpaws may take longer to dry since they are stuffed. You can remove the stuffing from most tails, except if you have a smaller tail. Make sure that the suit is completely dry before putting it away. You can use a fan to dry the bodysuit as long as you make sure it is not too hot and not too close to the suit. When drying your suit, do not put it in the dryer. There is a risk you may accidentally put it on a hot setting or that the machine malfunctions and melts the fur. It may also lead the fur to dry in a different direction, making the fur look ruffled and unclean. It is therefore recommended to air dry it and brush it on regular intervals to ensure the fur dries in the correct position.

I recommend cleaning your fursuit head in the bathtub or wipe it down with a damp cloth. Be careful and talk to the maker about how the head should preferably be cleaned. If the eyes are not waterproof, this is especially important to be mindful of. To reduce backterial growth inside the suit, it is highly reccomended you use a fursuit spray and spray the inside of your head after every wear. It is also reccomended to wear a balaclava inside your suit. 

More cleaning information can be found [here](https://cleanfursuits.weebly.com/).